Casm 2787 add remove ncns 1.2 (#1536)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/node_management/Add_Remove_Replace_NCNs.md

# Alpha Framework to Add, Remove, Replace, or Move NCNs

> Add, remove, replace or move NCNs. This applies to worker, storage, or master nodes. Use this procedure in the event that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add, remove, replace, or move NCNs. This applies to worker, storage, or master nodes. Use this procedure in the event that:
```

* Worker, storage, or master nodes are being replaced and the MAC address is changing.
* Worker or storage nodes are being added.
* Worker, storage, or master nodes are being moved to a different cabinet.

> **IMPORTANT:** Always maintain at least two of the first three worker, storage and master nodes when adding, removing, replacing or moving NCNs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**IMPORTANT:** Always maintain at least two of the first three worker, storage, and master nodes when adding, removing, replacing, or moving NCNs.
```

The following workflows are available:

* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)

> * [Add Worker, Storage or Master NCNs](#add-worker-storage-master)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Add Worker, Storage, or Master NCNs](#add-worker-storage-master)
```

  * [Add NCN Prerequisites](#add-ncn-prerequisites)
  * [Add NCN Procedure](#add-ncn-procedure)

> * [Remove Worker, Storage or Master NCNs](#remove-worker-storage-master)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Remove Worker, Storage, or Master NCNs](#remove-worker-storage-master)
```

  * [Remove NCN Prerequisites](#remove-ncn-prerequisites)
  * [Remove NCN Procedure](#remove-ncn-procedure)

> * [Replace or Move Worker, Storage or Master NCNs](#replace-worker-storage-master)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Replace or Move Worker, Storage, or Master NCNs](#replace-worker-storage-master)
```

<a name="prerequisites"></a>

## Prerequisites

The system is fully installed and has transitioned off of the LiveCD.

All activities required for site maintenance are complete.

The latest `docs-csm` RPM has been installed on the master nodes. See [Check for Latest Documentation](../../update_product_stream/index.md#documentation)

1. Run `ncn_add_pre-req.py` to adjust the network.

   ```bash
   ncn-m# cd /usr/share/doc/csm/scripts/operations/node_management/Add_Remove_Replace_NCNs/
   ncn-m# ./ncn_add_pre-req.py 
   ```

>    1. Script the following question

Reviewer: I am confused by this instruction. Is it asking the user to write a script?

    2022-04-01 21:21:09,869 - __main__ - WARNING - Deleting {"ID": "a4bf013ef0c2", "MACAddress": "a4:bf:01:3e:f0:c2", "IPAddress": []} from SMD EthernetInterfaces.
    2022-04-01 21:21:09,870 - __main__ - WARNING - Deleting 10.252.1.22 from kea active leases.
    2022-04-01 21:21:09,934 - __main__ - WARNING - Deleting {"ID": "a4bf013eeb4f", "MACAddress": "a4:bf:01:3e:eb:4f", "IPAddress": []} from SMD EthernetInterfaces.
    2022-04-01 21:21:09,935 - __main__ - WARNING - Deleting 10.252.1.20 from kea active leases.
    Please restart DVS and rebooting the following nodes before proceeding to the next step.:["x3000c0s21b4", "x3000c0s19b0", "x3000c0s21b3", "x3000c0s21b1", "x3000c0s21b2", "x3000c0s21b2n0", "x3000c0s21b3n0", "x3000c0s21b1n0"]
    prerequisite to prepare NCNs for removal, move and add
    Network expansion COMPLETED
    Log and backup of SLS, BSS and SMD can be found at: /tmp/ncn_task_backups2022-04-01_21-21-04

    Restarting cray-dhcp-kea
   ```

   1. When adding new NCNs, there will be network configuration changes that will impact changing IP addresses on computes. **That will require DVS restart to update the IP addresses in the DVS `node_map`.**

>    1. `ncn_add_pre-req.py` will make the network adjustments and will list the xnames that will need to be rebooted after DVS is restarted. See example below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. `ncn_add_pre-req.py` will make the network adjustments and will list the component names (xnames) that will need to be rebooted after DVS is restarted. See example below:
```

>       ```screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ```text
```

      Please restart DVS and rebooting the following nodes before proceeding to the next step.:["x3000c0s21b4", "x3000c0s19b0", "x3000c0s21b3", "x3000c0s21b1", "x3000c0s21b2", "x3000c0s21b2n0", "x3000c0s21b3n0", "x3000c0s21b1n0"]
      prerequisite to prepare NCNs for removal, move and add
      Network expansion COMPLETED
      Log and backup of SLS, BSS and SMD can be found at: /tmp/ncn_task_backups2022-04-01_21-21-04
      ```

<a name="add-worker-storage-master"></a>

> ## Add Worker, Storage or Master NCNs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add Worker, Storage, or Master NCNs
```

> Use this procedure to add a worker, storage, or master non-compute node (NCN).

Reviewer: Normally the definition of an acronym (NCN in this case) would occur the first time it is used in the document. I'd recommend moving that earlier in the document (or you can probably skip defining it -- it's a basic enough acronym for anyone who is attempting this procedure).

<a name="add-ncn-prerequisites"></a>

### Add NCN Prerequisites

> For several of the commands in this section, you will need to have variables set with the name of the node being added and its xname.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For several of the commands in this section, variables must be set with the name of the node being added and its component name (xname).
```

Set `NODE` to the hostname of the node being added (for example `ncn-w001`, `ncn-s002`, etc).

```bash
ncn# NODE=ncn-x00n
```

If the component name (xname) is known, set it now. Otherwise it will be determined in a later step.

```bash
ncn# XNAME=<xname>
ncn# echo $XNAME
```

**IMPORTANT:** Ensure that the node being added to the system has been properly configured. If the node being added to the system has not been previously in the system, several settings need to be verified.

* Ensure that the NCN device to be added has been racked and cabled per the SHCD.
* Ensure the NCN BMC is configured with the expected root user credentials.

>    The NCN BMC credentials needs to match the current global air-cooled BMC default credentials. This can be viewed with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The NCN BMC credentials need to match the current global air-cooled BMC default credentials. These can be viewed with the following commands:
```

               {
               "MessageId": "iLO.2.14.ResetInProgress"
               }
            ]
         }
      }
      ```

<a name="add-ncn-procedure"></a>

### Add NCN Procedure

The following is a high-level overview of the add NCN workflow:

1. [Allocate NCN IP Addresses](Add_Remove_Replace_NCNs/Allocate_NCN_IP_Addresses.md)

1. [Add Switch Config](Add_Remove_Replace_NCNs/Add_Switch_Config.md)

1. [Add NCN data](Add_Remove_Replace_NCNs/Add_NCN_Data.md) for SLS, BSS and HSM

1. [Update Firmware](Add_Remove_Replace_NCNs/Update_Firmware.md) via FAS

1. [Boot NCN and Configure](Add_Remove_Replace_NCNs/Boot_NCN.md)

1. [Redeploy Services](Add_Remove_Replace_NCNs/Redeploy_Services.md)

1. [Validate NCN](Add_Remove_Replace_NCNs/Validate_NCN.md)

1. [Validate Health](Add_Remove_Replace_NCNs/Validate_Health.md)

<a name="remove-worker-storage-master"></a>

## Remove Worker, Storage, or Master NCNs

Use this procedure to remove a worker, storage, or master node (NCN).

<a name="remove-ncn-prerequisites"></a>

### Remove NCN Prerequisites

Open two sessions: one on the node that is to be removed and another on a different master or worker node.

> For several of the commands in this section, you will need to have variables set with the name of the node being removed and its xname.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For several of the commands in this section, variables must be set with the name of the node being removed and its component name (xname).
```
